.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2022, KusaReMKN.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:
.\"
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice,
.\"    this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\"
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS"
.\" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE
.\" LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR
.\" CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF
.\" SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS
.\" INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN
.\" CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE)
.\" ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE
.\" POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.Dd $Mdocdate$
.Dt COMPASS \&3 "Jeedo Programmer's Manual"
.Os Jeedo
.
.Sh 名称
.Nm compass
.Nd コンパスモジュールとしての BNO055 との通信
.
.Sh ライブラリ
.Lb libc
.
.Sh 書式
.Fd "#include \(dqcompass.h\(dq"
.Bd -literal -compact
union calib {
	uint8_t raw;
	struct {
		unsigned b_mag: 2;
		unsigned b_acc: 2;
		unsigned b_gyr: 2;
		unsigned b_sys: 2;
	} bits;
#define mag	bits.b_mag
#define acc	bits.b_acc
#define gyr	bits.b_gyr
#define sys	bits.b_sys
};
.Ed
.Ft int
.Fn openCompass "void"
.Ft int
.Fn readCalibStat "int fd" "union calib *val"
.Ft int
.Fn readCompass "int fd" "double *deg"
.
.Sh 解説
.Fn openCompass
関数は、BNO055 モジュールをコンパスモードで動作するように初期化します。
BNO055 モジュールは 1 番の I\(S2C バスに接続され、\h'-.5n'
0x28 のアドレスで応答する必要があります。
.Pp
.Fn readCalibStat
関数は、記述子
.Fa fd
に対応していて、コンパスモードで動作している BNO055 のキャリブレーション状態を
.Fa val
が指す領域に格納します。
.Pp
.Fn readCompass
関数は、記述子
.Fa fd
に対応していて、コンパスモードで動作している BNO055 の Heading 角度を
.Fa deg
が指す領域に格納します。
.
.Sh 戻り値
.Fn openCompass
関数は、正常に完了するとファイル記述子である非負整数を返します。
.Pp
.Fn readCalibStat
関数及び
.Fn readCompass
関数は、正常に完了すると 0 を返します。
.Pp
いづれの関数も失敗すると \-1 を返し、エラーを示すために
.Va errno
を設定します。
.
.Sh エラー
以下のような場合、\h'-.5n'
.Fn openCompass
関数はエラーになります。
.Bl -tag -width Er
.It Bq Er ENXIO
1 番の I\(S2C バスに接続され、\h'-.5n'
0x28 のアドレスで応答するデバイスが BNO055 ではありません。
.It Bq Er ENXIO
BNO055 の Power On Self Test に失敗しました。
.El
.Pp
また、いづれの関数も Jeedo Programmer's Manual の
.Xr I2C 3
で説明されているエラーを発生させることがあります。
.
.Sh 関連項目
Jeedo Programmer's Manual の
.Xr I2C 3
.Pp
.Lk https://cdn-shop.adafruit.com/datasheets/BST_BNO055_DS000_12.pdf \
    "BNO055: data sheet"
.Pp
.Lk https://www.gsi.go.jp/buturisokuchi/menu03_magnetic_chart.html "磁気図"
.
.Sh 著作権
\(co 2022
.An KusaReMKN .
The 2-Clause BSD License の下で利用可能です。
.
.Sh バグ
コンパスモジュールから得られる北の方角は、当然真北ではありませんし、
意外なことに磁北でもありません。
利用する地域の偏角に応じて適当に補正した方が良いかもしれません（\h'-.5n'
.Sx 関連項目
の磁気図を参照してください）\h'-1n'。
