.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2022, KusaReMKN.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:
.\"
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice,
.\"    this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\"
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS"
.\" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE
.\" LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR
.\" CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF
.\" SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS
.\" INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN
.\" CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE)
.\" ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE
.\" POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.Dd $Mdocdate$
.Dt DEBUG \&3 "Jeedo Programmer's Manual"
.Os Jeedo
.
.Sh 名称
.Nm debug
.Nd デバッグ用フォーマット済み出力
.
.Sh ライブラリ
.Lb libc
.
.Sh 書式
.Fd "#include \(dqdebug.h\(dq"
.Fn DEBUG_printf "..."
.
.Sh 解説
.Fn DEBUG_printf
マクロは、標準エラー出力にフォーマット済みのデバッグメッセージを出力します。
出力されるメッセージは、
.Fn DEBUG_printf
マクロを呼び出した関数名、コロン文字、空白文字、
.Xr fprintf 3
によるフォーマット済みのメッセージが連なったものです。
.Pp
.Fn DEBUG_printf
マクロは、コンパイル時に
.Dv NDEBUG
をマクロとして定義することで除去できます
（例えば
.Xr cc 1
のオプション
.Fl D Ns Dv NDEBUG
を使います）\h'-1n'。
.
.Sh 例
以下のコード片によって呼び出される
.Fn DEBUG_printf
マクロは、
.Dl foo: value of a is 57.
のようなデバッグメッセージを出力します。
.Bd -literal
foo()
{
	int a = 57;
	DEBUG_printf("value of a is %d.\en", a);
}
.Ed
.
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr assert 3 ,
.Xr fprintf 3
.
.Sh 著作権
\(co 2022
.An KusaReMKN .
The 2-Clause BSD License の下で利用可能です。
.
.Sh バグ
.Fn DEBUG_printf
マクロを多用しようとすることは良い考えではありません。
