.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2022, KusaReMKN.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:
.\"
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice,
.\"    this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\"
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS"
.\" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE
.\" LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR
.\" CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF
.\" SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS
.\" INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN
.\" CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE)
.\" ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE
.\" POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.Dd $Mdocdate$
.Dt DIRDIST \&3 "Jeedo Programmer's Manual"
.Os Jeedo
.
.Sh 名称
.Nm dirdist
.Nd 方角や距離に関する処理
.
.Sh ライブラリ
.Lb libm
.
.Sh 書式
.Fd "#include \(dqdirdist.h\(dq"
.Bd -literal -compact
struct latlng {
	double lat;	/* 緯度 [deg]; NAN ならば無効 */
	double lng;	/* 経度 [deg]; NAN ならば無効 */
};
.Ed
.Ft double
.Fn direction "const struct latlng *restrict p" \
              "const struct latlng *restrict q"
.Ft double
.Fn distance "const struct latlng *restrict p" \
             "const struct latlng *restrict q"
.Ft int
.Fn isDirected "double a" "double b"
.Ft int
.Fn isOutsize "const struct latlng *restrict p" "double heading" \
              "const struct laglng *restrict q"
.Ft int
.Fn isReached "const struct latlng *restrict p" \
              "const struct latlng *restrict q"
.Ft double
.Fn normalize "double deg"
.
.Sh 解説
.Fn direction
関数は、地点
.Fa p
から見た地点
.Fa q
の方角を度数法で返します。
返される方角は、真北を 0\(de、真東を 90\(de とする [0, 360] の範囲の値です。
.Pp
.Fn distance
関数は、地点
.Fa p
から地点
.Fa q
までの距離をメートル単位で返します。
.Pp
.Fn isDirected
関数は、方角
.Fa a
と方角
.Fb b
をほとんど等しいと見做せるときに真を返します。
方角は度数法で指定します。
.Pp
.Fn isOutsize
関数は、車両が地点
.Fa p
にあって方角
.Fa heading
を向いているとき、地点
.Fa q
が回転円の外側にあるときに真を返します。
.Pp
.Fn isReached
関数は、地点
.Fa p
と地点
.Fa q
の距離が充分に近いと見做せるときに真を返します。
.Pp
.Fn normalize
関数は、度数法の角度
.Fa deg
を [0, 360] の範囲に正規化します。
.
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr math_error 3
及び Jeedo \f[ZCMI]Dark Side\fP\/ Programmer's Manual の
.Xr dirdist 3
.
.Sh 著作権
\(co 2022
.An KusaReMKN .
The 2-Clause BSD License の下で利用可能です。
