.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2022, KusaReMKN.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:
.\"
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice,
.\"    this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\"
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS"
.\" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE
.\" LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR
.\" CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF
.\" SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS
.\" INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN
.\" CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE)
.\" ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE
.\" POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.Dd $Mdocdate$
.Dt FILTER \&3 "Jeedo Programmer's Manual"
.Os Jeedo
.
.Sh 名称
.Nm filter
.Nd 何らかのフィルタリング機能
.
.Sh ライブラリ
.Lb libc
.
.Sh 書式
.Fd "#include \(dqfilter.h\(dq"
.Ft double
.Fn filter "double input" "FilterContext *ctx"
.
.Sh 解説
.Fn filter
関数は、入力値
.Fa input
に対して、フィルタの状態
.Fa ctx
をもとにして何らかのフィルタ処理を行います。
同時に、フィルタの状態は更新されるかもしれません。
.
.Sh 戻り値
.Fn filter
関数は、フィルタリングされた後の値を返します。
.
.Sh エラー
いまのところありません。
.
.Sh 関連項目
いまのところありません。
.
.Sh 著作権
\(co 2022
.An KusaReMKN .
The 2-Clause BSD License の下で利用可能です。
.
.Sh バグ
フィルタの状態
.Fa ctx
の詳細な内容をプログラマが知る必要はありません。
