.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2023, KusaReMKN.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:
.\"
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice,
.\"    this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\"
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS"
.\" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE
.\" LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR
.\" CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF
.\" SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS
.\" INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN
.\" CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE)
.\" ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE
.\" POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.Dd $Mdocdate$
.Dt MANKI \&3 "Jeedo Programmer's Manual"
.Os Jeedo
.
.Sh 名称
.Nm manki
.Nd Manki API の呼び出し
.
.Sh ライブラリ
.Lb libc ,
.Lb libm ,
.Lb libcurl (libcurl, \-lcurl)
及び
.Lb Jansson (libjansson, \-ljansson)
.
.Sh 書式
.In stdint.h
.In curl/curl.h
.Fd "#include \(dqdirdist.h\(dq"
.Fd "#include \(dqmanki.h\(dq"
.Bd -literal -compact
/* Manki API の呼び出しコンテキストを格納するオブジェクト */
struct carContext {
	const char *carId;		/* 車両識別子 */
	uint_fast32_t sequence;	/* 通信番号 */
	const char *response;		/* 応答文 */
	struct latlng destination;	/* 目的地座標 */
};
.Ed
.Ft CURLcode
.Fn manki "struct carContext *restrict ctx" "int cmd" \
          "const struct latlng *restrict pos" "int btr"
.
.Sh 解説
.Fn manki
関数は、Manki API を呼び出します。
.Fa ctx
には API の呼び出しコンテキストを指すポインタを指定します。
コンテキストの内容は呼び出しによって更新されます。
API を呼び出す際の要求は
.Fa cmd
で指定されます。
これには
.Dv MR_HELLO , MR_PING , MR_NEXT
及び
.Dv MR_HALT
のいづれかを指定します。
.Fa pos
には車両の現在位置を指すポインタを指定します。
.Fa btr
には車両のバッテリ残量をパーセント単位で指定します。
.
.Sh 戻り値
.Fn manki
関数は処理が成功すると値
.Dv CURLE_OK
を返します。
失敗するとエラーを示す値を返します。
.
.Sh エラー
.Fn manki
関数は、以下の場合に失敗します。
.Bl -tag -width Er
.It Bq Li (CURLcode)-1
要求文の生成に失敗しました。
.It Bq Li (CURLcode)-2
応答文の解釈に失敗しました。
.It Bq Li (CURLcode)-3
API の呼び出しに失敗しました。
.Li ctx.response
に失敗の理由があります。
.El
.Pp
加えて、通常の
.Dv CURLcode
が示すエラーを発生させます。
.
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr libcurl 3
.
.Sh 著作権
\(co 2023
.An KusaReMKN .
The 2-Clause BSD License の下で利用可能です。
.
.Sh バグ
.Fa ctx
の内容が更新されるとき、
.Xr malloc 3
で確保された領域へのポインタが設定されることがあります。
これを解放しないとメモリリークとなります。
