.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2023, KusaReMKN.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:
.\"
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice,
.\"    this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\"
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS"
.\" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE
.\" LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR
.\" CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF
.\" SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS
.\" INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN
.\" CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE)
.\" ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE
.\" POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.Dd $Mdocdate$
.Dt TEKGRAPH \&3 "Jeedo Programmer's Manual"
.Os Jeedo
.
.Sh 名称
.Nm tekgraph
.Nd Tektronix モードのためのラッパ関数群
.
.Sh ライブラリ
.Lb libc
.
.Sh 書式
.Fd "#include \(dqtekgraph.h\(dq"
.Ft int
.Fn geginGraph "void"
.Ft int
.Fn clearGraph "void"
.Ft int
.Fn endGraph "void"
.Ft int
.Fn beginLine "int type"
.Ft int
.Fn moveTo "int x" "int y"
.Ft void
.Fn moveCircle "int x" "int y" "int r" "int n"
.Ft int
.Fn commit "void"
.Ft int
.Fn beginCursot "void"
.
.Sh 解説
.Fn beginGraph
関数は、Tektronix モードに入るためのシーケンスを出力します。
.Pp
.Fn clearGraph
関数は、Tektronix モードにおいて画面をクリアするためのシーケンスを出力します。
.Pp
.Fn engGraph
関数は、Tektronix モードから VT100 モードに切り替えるためのシーケンスを
出力します。
.Pp
.Fn beginLine
関数は、Tektronix モードにおいて直線の描画を開始するシーケンスを出力します。
.Fa type
には次のような値を指定できます（完全な一覧は
.Xr XXX
を参照してください）\h'-1n'。
.Pp
.TS
center;
cfB cfB
n l.
_
\f(CItype\fP の値	線の種類
_
0	実線
1	点線
2	一点鎖線
3	短い鎖線
4	長い鎖線
_
.TE
.Pp
.Fn moveTo
関数は、カーソルの位置を
.Fa ( x , y )
で指定される位置に移動するシーケンスを出力します。
.Fa x
の範囲は [0,\ 1023]、
.Fa y
の範囲は [0,\ 778] です。
.Pp
.Fn moveCircle
関数は、
.Fn moveTo
関数を組み合わせて
.Fa ( x , y )
を中心とする半径
.Fa r
の円を描画する（実際には正
.Fa n
角形を描画する）シーケンスを出力します。
.Pp
.Fn commit
関数は、描画や移動を確定するシーケンスを出力します。
.Pp
.Fn beginCursor
関数は、Tektronix モードにおいてカーソルの位置を設定するシーケンスを
出力します。
.
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr xterm 1
.Rs
.%T Xterm Control Sequences
.Re
.
.Sh 著作権
\(co 2022
.An KusaReMKN .
The 2-Clause BSD License の下で利用可能です。
